Let's talk about the very last one.
The Jupiter notebooks.
Now this one is really really interesting and it's very popular with data scientists and machine learning
people because well let me show you.
Instead of explaining in order for us to use Jupiter notebooks we can actually go to Anaconda dot com.
No this isn't a snake Web site.
This is a distribution a platform that allows us to download a ton of tools that Python engineers use
and like I said before a lot of data scientists a lot of people who are working with machine learning
would download Anaconda because it comes with all these tools that we need to be productive instead
of downloading them one by one.
And here's the thing.
You can actually just download python with Anaconda.
So if we didn't go to Python dot org initially and just went to Anaconda and clicked download Well that
was going to install Python for us as well.
But I wanted us to go through the official way of downloading it instead of Anaconda because we want
to understand how things work.
So in here all we have to do is click download and you'll be able to download the anaconda distribution
and you can see that it's the most popular python in our data science platform and you can see that
when you download Anaconda it comes with a lot of things that we're going to use throughout the course
such as Jupiter notebooks.
It comes with different plugins like num Pi or bouquet or pandas or even tensor flow.
A lot of things that data scientists use.
Now if you scroll down it will detect whatever machine you're on so you can download based on your version
so if you're on a Windows you might have to click windows and make sure you download version three point
seven or higher.
And based on whatever computer you have most of you will probably have 64 bit.
That's something dependent on your machine if you're on Linux again.
You'll have different options as well.
Now you can click on download here or you can even click on documentation read more and go to installation
here.
We'll have a step by step guide on how to install Anaconda.
Now I want to give you a warning.
You don't have to do this optional number two step which is to verify data integrity.
This is something that you do for security reasons to make sure that you're downloading the right package.
So that is completely optional.
You can skip it over and you can walk through the steps to make sure that you install it properly.
Now one of the things that you'll get is this option especially on Windows to add Anaconda to my path
environment variable I recommend and they do as well to not click here because remember we've installed
Python initially already.
So by clicking that and adding it to the path it's going to conflict with an older version of Python
that you may have installed a couple of lessons ago.
So make sure you follow this this guide and you see that Anaconda a recently announced that they're
going to include pie charm for Anaconda as well.
So again if in the previous video Oh you've already downloaded pi charm you can skip over this step
as well.
So that's the thing with the windows with Mac.
Again it's very self-explanatory.
You just click through the process install and everything will be done for you.
And if you're on a Linux machine you will have to use your terminal and essentially have to run this
command that they'll give you in order to run Anaconda.
Remember we want to use Anaconda three because we want to use Python version 3.
Now once you have installed Anaconda I'm going to give you a warning.
It's a pretty big distribution.
It is quite big.
So if your computer doesn't have enough memory doesn't have enough storage.
There is another option which is many Condor which is a smaller version of Anaconda.
That doesn't come with all these packages and most likely in this course you can get away with just
running mini conduct as an option.
Now let's say you've installed Anaconda.
You should have it in your applications right here.
All you need to do is simply click on it and it's going to launch Anaconda for you.
Now it might take a little while just to get everything set up but once it's on look at that you have
the anaconda navigator and you have a few things here that you might recognize such as V.S. code.
You can actually install it through here.
You can use things like spider another IDC like pie chart.
You can also have things like our studio if you want to get into our programming and really focus on
data sites but the one we're really interested in is the Jupiter notebook Jupiter notebooks are extremely
popular notebooks that if you're doing any sort of data science or machine learning with Python you're
for sure using.
I love them and you'll see why in just a second.
Now you might have to install this if it wasn't installed but otherwise once installed you can just
click on launch and let's see what happens.
Did you see that.
It opened up my browser my default browser and it took me to local host 8 8 8 8.
Now if this doesn't happen for you automatically you might have to just type in manually into the browser
local host 8 8 8 8.
But otherwise it's going to open up this for me.
Which right now if you look at it we're in our desktop.
I can open my Python files if I want to.
If I click on them.
Look at that.
I get my Python files that I can edit and type things into.
But this isn't really why we want to use Jupiter notebooks.
Instead we want to create a new Jupiter notebook.
Want to click on new and make sure that we select Python 3 once I click on python 3 we get a new Jupiter
notebook and this notebook which is untitled can.
Well we can just name it.
My first notebook I'm going to rename and check this out.
If I go to my desktop I have some folders here.
I have a hidden folder which is the checkpoints folder which is Jupiter notebooks keeping track of my
files.
And then I also have my first notebook dot IP y and b this stands for I Python notebooks which is what
Jupiter notebooks used to be called.
As you notice they are not that P Y Python files.
There's a special type of file the I Python notebook file which can be opened with Jupiter notebooks.
Now the reason we have a browser here is that Jupiter notebooks needs a gooey or graphical user interface
for us to write this.
It's not a code editor where we had the code edited our screens.
Instead it's using the browser to allow us to run this program even though it's using the browser though
you're able to run this flying.
So if you're on an airplane you can still run your Jupiter notebooks and practice coding.
Now the way Jupiter notebook works is using these cells so these cells can print or I can write different
code in Python so if I do this I can click Run and look at that right away it gives me the output and
now I have a second cell where I can say let's say four plus five if I run this.
Look at that.
I run a different cell with a different output.
Now instead of us always constantly running run we can also just use the shortcut shift and enter to
actually run the code.
So let's say for example we're doing is five greater than four.
I can run shift enter and it gives me the answer right away.
Now the beauty here is that it's almost like creating notes for yourself.
Right.
I'm able to run different cells see different outputs get immediate response to my code instead of in
a code editor or an I.D. where I had to write everything in one file and everything ran at once.
And as we get into machine learning and data science and data visualization we'll actually see that
we use Jupiter notebooks because they're so easy to visualize these results.
Now one other thing with Jupiter notebooks that it's really really nice is this idea of the notebook
where instead of just always having code which you can see over here if I click on the drop down menu
and click markdown I can now type text like this is my first Python or Jupiter notebook and I can write
different sort of notes here and once done I can do shift enter and look at that.
I have my notes in this book so that maybe as you're learning for the rest of the course you can have
different Jupiter notebooks to take notes run code verify it and we'll be extremely organized and you
can even post this on github and share them with other community members and all we have to do now is
well it automatically saves so you can see over here that anytime we open Jupiter notebooks let's actually
do that.
I'm going to close this close this as well.
Yes let's quit.
I'm going to open Jupiter notebooks one more time by clicking on Anaconda.
It's initializing takes a bit of time but eventually I can launch my Jupiter notebook again.
It's going to open up my Jupiter notebook on local host.
You'll see over here that the local host has changed to 8 8 8 9 so that may happen if for example local
host 8 8 8 is already taken.
But if I click here on the Jupiter notebook remember the I Python notebook I go back to my Jupiter notebook
with all my text all my files.
How cool is that.
And by the way going back to this local host.
The reason that this is actually still taken is well if you look over here I have two terminal windows
because I technically didn't close the session or the server from last time so because I did that Anaconda
automatically said oh the local host 8 8 8 8 is already taken.
So let's just increase the number 2 8 8 8 9.
So you want to make sure that you close these once you are done and when I do that it tells me connection
failed because we've stopped the server it no longer works.
So if I type something here you see that I get a star and it's not doing anything if I do four plus
five again it's not running because the server is no longer running.
All right.
Let's take a break and I'll see you in the next one.